---
layout:   post
title:    "All I Want for Rust 2019 is You (To Give a Talk)"
date:     2018-12-30
excerpt:  "A call for local Rust meetups"
comments: false
tag:
- rust
- community
---

This post is going to be what I'm hoping to see in the community for
this coming year in Rust. First, I'm going to tell you about my year
in Rust!

This year was the first year I *seriously* wrote any Rust. I
primarily had been focusing on Haskell over the last ~2 years.
The first time I wrote any Rust was at RustConf at Rust Bridge in
2017 & had been casually following some discussion on Twitter.

In February 2018, the Boulder/Denver Rust Meetup rebooted!
The meetup is what got me involved with the larger community. At the
meetup I found out about a Junior Rust Developer gig!
I had the opportunity to write Rust professionally! That was my first
gig as a full time software developer. While it wasn't perfect, it
was an interesting experience. I'm now taking a sabbitical at the
Recurse Center where I'm continuing to focus on writing Rust. This is
all to say, I'm excited about Rust, but I'm still new here & I'm new
to programming in general, I'd say.

Approximately 3 months after the reboot of the Boulder/Denver Rust
Meetup, Pete Lyons asked if I would be interested in helping organize
the meetup. I care a lot about community & bringing people together.
I said yes in the hopes that I could make a positive impact in this
space.

This space has made an incredibly postive impact on me. I'd like to
list the things that have made me really happy about the local
Boulder/Denver Rust Meetup. Most of this credit belongs to Pete Lyons.

- consistency
There is a meetup approximately every 6 weeks. 
The meetup switches between Denver & Boulder each month to have a 
location more convenient for different folks.

- friendliness
People are willing to offer their time & expertise & will help people
out when they ask. Some of the requests & offers I've seen have
included:
    -- asking for clarification on a particular Rust question
    -- looking for work/announcements for hiring
    -- offering to pair on a project

- welcoming space
I feel like I belong here & I hope that's the case for 
everyone else too.

# Call to action for the Boulder/Denver Rust Meetup. 
*This might apply to other Rust meetups too.*

### Have a consistent beginner track talk lined up for each meetup
##### Why have a beginner track?

1) There are lots of people just starting to learn Rust!

Rust is new! It's been stable for nearly 4 years now. That's very
young! It was first created in 2009 & a language that's been around
for almost 10 years is not a long time.

Right now, I feel like this meetup group is a lot of hobbyists, folks
that have been writing C/C++ code, working on embedded systems,
working in other languages, & have been in software development for
awhile. I think we could bring in more curious people if we could
have talks & material directed at people just getting started.
What do you wish you would've had someone teach you when you were 
first starting out?

2) Physical, local meetups make getting involved in the larger Rust
community easier.

I've gotten a lot of people offering to pair on projects & share
their knowledge. Without this meetup I don't think that I'd be where
I'm at with Rust.

3) More people can feel like they belong & start contributing.

##### Beginner Track Talk Suggestions

Not sure where to get started with a beginner talk?

I have suggestions!

- Talk about Rust syntax or language semantics!
- Talk about a crate you've used & show code examples about how you've
used it!

This last suggestion has endless possibilities. Not only would you
get to write a neat little code example, but you'd help familiarize
your meetup group with the crate. Your presentation could also serve
as documentation! This documentation could be passed to crate owners
& help document the Rust ecosystem at large! I'm excited to hear what
people come up with & perhaps see more docs for crates this year!

### Make the meetup more accessible

I want to record the talks.

I want to make slides available beforehand, but at a minimum, after
the meetup is over.

I want to ensure that venues are good & easy for people to access.


I want to focus on these action items because I think it will
maximize access to the knowledge shared at these meetups & I think
that's really important, for people that have attended & would like
to review material, as well as people that can't show up, but are
interested in the topic being presented on.

# Call to action for all attendees.
- Offer talks

If you are an expert on something talk about it! If you are poking
around on a project & are excited about, talk about it!

If you've found an interesting problem or are stuck on something,
talk about it!

Sharing what you're learning & having other share what they know with
you is what this space is for!

- Offer mentorship
    -- Offer pairing on *your* project with newcomers
    -- Offer pairing on a project they are working on.

- Offer to help
If you see that your meetup organizer needs something & you can help
out, I'm sure they would appreciate a helping hand.
A meetup is a meant to be a place where we come together & share
positive, exciting things with one another. If you can help make that
the primary focus when we all get together, I can guarantee you that
the organizer will appreciate it.

# Thank you to all the speakers this year!

We had a lot of amazing talks this year! I'd like to list the
speakers at the Boulder/Denver Rust Meetup this year!

Thank you so much for your time & energy! Your talks made this
meetup amazing!

Alan Somers
Andrew Useckas
Andy Grove
Chris Krycho
Danny Browning
David Simmons
J Haigh
Joel Dice
Nathan Sobo
Paul Hummer
Pete Lyons
Stuart Small
Tristan Miller
